python_sdk/README.md, before:

# VizQL Data Service Python SDK 

[![Tableau Supported](https://img.shields.io/badge/Support%20Level-Tableau%20Supported-53bd92.svg)](https://www.tableau.com/support-levels-it-and-developer-tools)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue?style=flat-square.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/refs/heads/main/python_sdk/LICENSE.txt)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9%2B-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
<!-- Enable after publish in production
[![PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/vizql-data-service-py.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/vizql-data-service-py/)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/vizql-data-service-py.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/vizql-data-service-py/)
[![Build](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/actions/workflows/push.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/actions/workflows/push.yml)
Add code coverage
-->
[![OpenAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenAPI-3.0.3-green.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/refs/heads/main/VizQLDataServiceOpenAPISchema.json)

The VizQL Data Service Python SDK is a lightweight client library that enables interaction with Tableau's VizQL Data Service APIs. It supports both cloud and on-premises deployments, offering both synchronous and asynchronous methods for querying the VizQL Data Service APIs.

Consider reading VizQL Data Service in the following order:
- [VizQL Data Service help documentation](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/vizql-data-service/en-us/index.html)
- [VizQL Data Service API Reference](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/vizql-data-service/en-us/reference/index.html)
- [VizQL Data Service Postman collection](https://www.postman.com/salesforce-developers/salesforce-developers/folder/jdy4gr3/vizql-data-service-queries)
- [VizQL Data Service OpenAPI Schema](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/blob/main/VizQLDataServiceOpenAPISchema.json)

## 🔧 Installation
```bash
pip install vizql-data-service-py
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Importing Required Modules
```python
from vizql_data_service_py import (
    ReadMetadataRequest,
    QueryRequest,
    Datasource,
    Connection,
    VizQLDataServiceClient,
    read_metadata,
    query_datasource,
    SimpleField,
    AggregatedField,
    Function,
    Query
)
```

### Setting Up Server Connection
Please read the Tableau Server Client (python) [Sign In out Out document](https://tableau.github.io/server-client-python/docs/sign-in-out) for on how to create Server and Auth instances.
> **Note**: Authentication methods differ between Tableau Cloud and On-premises:
> - Tableau Cloud: Only supports JWT, PAT authentication
> - Tableau Onprem: Supports JWT, PAT and username/password authentication


### Configuring Data Source
```python
# Create a data source instance with optional connection parameters
datasource = Datasource(
    datasourceLuid="<datasource-luid>",
    # Optional: Configure connections for external data sources
    connections=[
        Connection(
            connectionUsername="<connection-username>",
            connectionPassword="<connection-password>"
        )
    ]
)
```

### Sign in, Read metadata and query data sources
```python
import tableauserverclient as TSC

# Choose one of these auth mechanism
tableau_auth = TSC.PersonalAccessTokenAuth('TOKEN_NAME', 'TOKEN_VALUE', 'SITENAME')
# tableau_auth = TSC.TableauAuth('USERNAME', 'PASSWORD', 'SITENAME')
# tableau_auth = TSC.JWTAuth('JWT', 'SITENAME')

server_url = 'https://SERVER_URL'
server = TSC.Server(server_url)

with server.auth.sign_in(tableau_auth):
    client = VizQLDataServiceClient(server_url, server, tableau_auth)
    # Define your query fields
    query = Query(
        # Example: sample Superstore data source
        # Aggregate SUM(Sales) by Category
        fields=[
            SimpleField(fieldCaption="Category"),
            AggregatedField(fieldCaption="Sales", function=Function.SUM),
        ]
    )
    # Step 1: Read metadata
    read_metadata_request = ReadMetadataRequest(
        datasource=datasource
    )
    read_metadata_response = read_metadata.sync_detailed(
        client=client.client, body=read_metadata_request
    )
    print(f"Read Metadata Response: {read_metadata_response.parsed}")

    # Step 2: Execute query
    query_request = QueryRequest(
        query=query, datasource=datasource
    )
    query_response = query_datasource.sync_detailed(
        client=client.client, body=query_request
    )
    print(f"Query Datasource Response: {query_response.parsed}")
```

This SDK is built using `datamodel-codegen` to generate all VizQL Data Service models based on Pydantic v2. For detailed API documentation and model specifications, please refer to the [VizQLDataServiceOpenAPISchema..json](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/VizQLDataServiceOpenAPISchema.json) file. 

> **Note**: While raw JSON requests are supported, we strongly recommend using the provided Python pydantic v2 objects to construct requests. This approach offers several advantages:
> - Type safety and validation at compile time
> - Better IDE support with autocompletion
> - Consistent request structure
> - Easier maintenance and debugging

For comprehensive examples demonstrating various query patterns and filter combinations, please check the [examples](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/python_sdk/src/examples) directory.

## 📘 Supported Features
- ✅ Read metadata of Tableau published datasources
- ✅ Query published datasources with selectable fields and queries supports various filters
- ✅ Synchronous and asynchronous Python client support in examples
- ✅ Authentication using Tableau username/password, JWT or PAT
- ✅ Works with both Tableau Cloud and Tableau Server (on-prem)
- ✅ OpenAPI schema generated Python Pydantic v2 models for type-safe API interactions

## 🛠️ Requirements
- Python 3.9+
- pip 20.0+
- Tableau Server 2025.1+ or Tableau Cloud

## 🤝 Contributing
To contribute, see our [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/python_sdk/CONTRIBUTING.md) Guide. A list of all our contributors to date is in [CONTRIBUTORS.md](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/python_sdk/CONTRIBUTORS.md).

Commit message:

add jwt token document in readme

python_sdk/README.md, after:

# VizQL Data Service Python SDK 

[![Tableau Supported](https://img.shields.io/badge/Support%20Level-Tableau%20Supported-53bd92.svg)](https://www.tableau.com/support-levels-it-and-developer-tools)
[![GitHub](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue?style=flat-square.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/refs/heads/main/python_sdk/LICENSE.txt)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9%2B-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
<!-- Enable after publish in production
[![PyPI Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/vizql-data-service-py.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/vizql-data-service-py/)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/vizql-data-service-py.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/vizql-data-service-py/)
[![Build](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/actions/workflows/push.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/actions/workflows/push.yml)
Add code coverage
-->
[![OpenAPI](https://img.shields.io/badge/OpenAPI-3.0.3-green.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/refs/heads/main/VizQLDataServiceOpenAPISchema.json)

The VizQL Data Service Python SDK is a lightweight client library that enables interaction with Tableau's VizQL Data Service APIs. It supports both cloud and on-premises deployments, offering both synchronous and asynchronous methods for querying the VizQL Data Service APIs.

Consider reading VizQL Data Service in the following order:
- [VizQL Data Service help documentation](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/vizql-data-service/en-us/index.html)
- [VizQL Data Service API Reference](https://help.tableau.com/current/api/vizql-data-service/en-us/reference/index.html)
- [VizQL Data Service Postman collection](https://www.postman.com/salesforce-developers/salesforce-developers/folder/jdy4gr3/vizql-data-service-queries)
- [VizQL Data Service OpenAPI Schema](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/blob/main/VizQLDataServiceOpenAPISchema.json)

## 🔧 Installation
```bash
pip install vizql-data-service-py
```

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Importing Required Modules
```python
from vizql_data_service_py import (
    ReadMetadataRequest,
    QueryRequest,
    Datasource,
    Connection,
    VizQLDataServiceClient,
    read_metadata,
    query_datasource,
    SimpleField,
    AggregatedField,
    Function,
    Query
)
```

### Setting Up Server Connection
To create Server and Auth instances, please refer to the [Tableau Server Client (Python) Authentication Guide](https://tableau.github.io/server-client-python/docs/sign-in-out). For JWT authentication setup, see the [Configure Connected Apps with Direct Trust](https://help.tableau.com/current/online/en-us/connected_apps_direct.htm) documentation.

> **Note**: Authentication methods vary between Tableau Cloud and On-premises deployments:
> - Tableau Cloud: Supports JWT and Personal Access Token (PAT) authentication
> - Tableau On-premises: Supports JWT, PAT, and username/password authentication

### Configuring Data Source
```python
# Create a data source instance with optional connection parameters
datasource = Datasource(
    datasourceLuid="<datasource-luid>",
    # Optional: Configure connections for external data sources
    connections=[
        Connection(
            connectionUsername="<connection-username>",
            connectionPassword="<connection-password>"
        )
    ]
)
```

### Sign in, Read metadata and query data sources
```python
import tableauserverclient as TSC

# Choose one of these auth mechanism
tableau_auth = TSC.PersonalAccessTokenAuth('TOKEN_NAME', 'TOKEN_VALUE', 'SITENAME')
# tableau_auth = TSC.TableauAuth('USERNAME', 'PASSWORD', 'SITENAME')
# tableau_auth = TSC.JWTAuth('JWT', 'SITENAME')

server_url = 'https://SERVER_URL'
server = TSC.Server(server_url)

with server.auth.sign_in(tableau_auth):
    client = VizQLDataServiceClient(server_url, server, tableau_auth)
    # Define your query fields
    query = Query(
        # Example: sample Superstore data source
        # Aggregate SUM(Sales) by Category
        fields=[
            SimpleField(fieldCaption="Category"),
            AggregatedField(fieldCaption="Sales", function=Function.SUM),
        ]
    )
    # Step 1: Read metadata
    read_metadata_request = ReadMetadataRequest(
        datasource=datasource
    )
    read_metadata_response = read_metadata.sync_detailed(
        client=client.client, body=read_metadata_request
    )
    print(f"Read Metadata Response: {read_metadata_response.parsed}")

    # Step 2: Execute query
    query_request = QueryRequest(
        query=query, datasource=datasource
    )
    query_response = query_datasource.sync_detailed(
        client=client.client, body=query_request
    )
    print(f"Query Datasource Response: {query_response.parsed}")
```

This SDK is built using `datamodel-codegen` to generate all VizQL Data Service models based on Pydantic v2. For detailed API documentation and model specifications, please refer to the [VizQLDataServiceOpenAPISchema..json](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/VizQLDataServiceOpenAPISchema.json) file. 

> **Note**: While raw JSON requests are supported, we strongly recommend using the provided Python pydantic v2 objects to construct requests. This approach offers several advantages:
> - Type safety and validation at compile time
> - Better IDE support with autocompletion
> - Consistent request structure
> - Easier maintenance and debugging

For comprehensive examples demonstrating various query patterns and filter combinations, please check the [examples](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/python_sdk/src/examples) directory.

## 📘 Supported Features
- ✅ Read metadata of Tableau published datasources
- ✅ Query published datasources with selectable fields and queries supports various filters
- ✅ Synchronous and asynchronous Python client support in examples
- ✅ Authentication using Tableau username/password, JWT or PAT
- ✅ Works with both Tableau Cloud and Tableau Server (on-prem)
- ✅ OpenAPI schema generated Python Pydantic v2 models for type-safe API interactions

## 🛠️ Requirements
- Python 3.9+
- pip 20.0+
- Tableau Server 2025.1+ or Tableau Cloud

## 🤝 Contributing
To contribute, see our [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/python_sdk/CONTRIBUTING.md) Guide. A list of all our contributors to date is in [CONTRIBUTORS.md](https://github.com/tableau/VizQL-Data-Service/python_sdk/CONTRIBUTORS.md).
